### geometron video storyboard

1. [why?(talking head surrounded by my machines, holding up the art book)]I believe the purpose of technology is to make everything free for all people.  Current technology is largely non-free because it is so hard to use and distribution is centralized.  Geometron is a language which allows for total freedom to communicate both with other people about technology and to control technology directly, without any reference to a specific culture, human language, or existing  computer language.  I have documented this language in this art book with no human language or computers, and with your help we can spread this to the rest of humanity to build a more free technological world. [hold up the physical art book here] 
2. [what is geometron? voiceover, showing the various implementations on the computer, in the park, and on paper]Last line of this section: "this is nothing new to you, it's writing and symbols on images, which you've already been doing constantly online and for presentations and art.  I'm just trying to make that easier and more free"
3. [What is my story?] back to talking head show all my trash stuff, explain my transition from mainstream science to trash magic, show all my stuff, manifesto and thesis, various technology i have, wave it around, show it to explain how i ended up believing that current industrial production is broken, realization that language is key, and that it's all about geometry.  Old school capitalist production is a negative sum game, I want positive sum game, so I've had to reinvent the industrial scaling process
4. I WILL SHIP YOU NOTHING!!! I've been down this road before, buying industrial infrastructure, building things, hiring people, shipping things, borrowing money to buy inventory.  I believe that to build a free world we need to scale differently and relate to money differently.  I will act as a teacher and consultant, and guide you through the process of duplicating everything I have here.  I will also facilitate communication between all y'all so that everyone gets the benefit of everyone else's work.  
5. [Future work and implications/applications, combination of talking head and quick shots of specific applications as I list them fast here]Once you've built this system of interconnected languages, you can all act as a leaderless swarm to exchange more information and create more technology without any further funding.  I will act as a teacher and consultant as much or as little as you all want.  I own nothing.  All this is released into public domain with no restrictions whatsoever; if you want to start a business based on this, you can do that, and I can help you or leave you totally alone.  I'll take no equity or share, I just want to spread free things.  Let's build the language we need to communicate about technology in such a way as to make all things free for all people!  We have nothing to lose but our chains and a world to win.