## what exactly is Geometron? 

Geometron is a type of information structure.  By that it is part of the broad category that includes things like "book", "sport", "computer language" or "artistic medium".  All of these are classes of information organization.  Geometron organizes information into a set of cubes in three dimensional space made up of 8 layers, each of which is a tablet divided into 8 rows and 8 columns, making 64 cells each of which contain a series of addresses which reference back to the cubes.  The basic structure I call the "Geometron Hypercube" is a pair of these cubes, one of which is all *actions* and one of which is all *symbols*.  

Addresses in each cube are sets of numbers describing which cube they point to (0 for action 1 for symbol), which layer(indicating type of information), and which row and column, indicating a place on a given tablet.  All of this sounds complicated as words in a document but is intended to always be built as a physical tablet you hold in your hand and as a set of html graphics both for the tablets and 3d graphics for the full cubes. 

One of the layers of the cube is always the ASCII characters which correspond to the keys on a standard keyboard, which can be mapped to characters in any human language, making both human language and computer languages like C or Java expressible as subsets of the Geometron.  

The exact layers of the *action* cube are from bottom to top:

1. (0000-0037)Creation operators, also known as "root magic".  These are the commands that create document elements. In the standards web based implementation this means they use Javascript to create HTML5 elements that express various parts of the Geometron cube.  
2. (0040-0176)ASCII, or font.  These point to fonts that use geometry to build the various basic letters or point to the system font when used in the text parts of a web document.(note that these bottom two layers break the 8X8 geometry up into an 8X4 and 8X12 tablet to accommodate the printable ASCII set.
3. (0200-0277)Shapes.  This is where the languages get their specificity, more than any other part of the cube.  It's where if you're building an electronics schematic language you make your various component symbols, and if you're building a physics textbook you make your standard physics diagram elements like a mass-on-a-spring.  To get the full power of the system these often reference themselves.  For instance, to make a big array of things, you would make one shape for the thing, another for a row that references the thing, and another for the 2d array which adds up rows.  
4. (0300-0377)Geometry actions.  This is literally where the action is.  This describes a set of geometric transformations on a generalized "cursor" which has a position, direction, length, and step angle, and can dictate how various draw operations are implemented. This is also intended to be used for control of industrial machines, including the physical data encoding.  I have a set of "standard" commands in the system which leaves a lot of blank space to be modified for each application.  As with all layers of the cube, the whole thing can be re-written from scratch at any time if something radically different is needed(e.g. moving from 2d geometry to 3d geometry)
5. (0400-0477)Manuscript/scroll. All the information in the cube is like a dictionary, but without an actual manuscript that uses that language it's nothing.  This layer is where we put the manuscript we're reading or writing at any given time.  Like the 0200's it is fully recursive, and can reference itself
6. (0500-0577)Image table.  These are links to images which can be easily embedded in an html document.  With 64 spots for bitmap images we can express a vast array of potential concepts, and by putting them all in a table of url's we make a very small number of bytes usable to reference that whole universe of images.  These can be referenced by the other layers to embed images in vector graphics constructs(canvas elements and svg's)
7. (0600-0677)Word and text table.  This is where pure ASCII goes, intended to be read by *humans* rather than machines.  As with images, there is a certain power in choosing your 64 most used words, paragraphs, and phrases for rapid reference in the context of a specific document or application. 
8. (0700-0777)Math.  This is where arithmetic, algebra, calculus and so on live.  In the action cube it's mostly javascript math operations of various kinds including graphing and calculating standard things you need for any given project.  This might be as simple as computing monthly cash flow for a small business or window size for an app, or as complex and reference functions for the user interface layer of a operational quantum computer.

